This is the code for the paper "When and How Often Is Weighted Majority Vote Optimal Under Log Loss".
If you use this in an academic study, please cite the paper:
```
Citation coming soon
```

Below, one will find installation instructions as well as information on how the results were generated for the paper.

There are two sets of experiments present in the paper.

First is checking Theorem 7.2 and evaluating Lemma 7.3.
This is done on 11 real datasets from [WRENCH](https://github.com/JieyuZ2/wrench).
The datasets are included, and it suffices to follow the instructions below.

The second set of experiments is determining the sizes of O^{theta, epsilon} and T^epsilon where epsilon >= 0.
There are two ways to determine the size -- either by counting the number of patterns
in each set for a fixed number of datapoints $n$ or by finding the volume of each set.
Our code can do both for the OCDS and MV weighting strategies.

## Installation

1. Setup LattE by following the [installation instructions](https://github.com/latte-int/latte).
Make sure to install `4ti2` as that is used in our code.  You may find the information in this
[github issue](https://github.com/latte-int/latte/issues/35) useful.

2. Setup the python environment
 `conda env create -f environment.yml`

## Evaluating Theorem 7.2 and Lemma 7.3

1. Open `weight_comparer.py` and change the index of `datasets` under the entry point

2. Run `python3 weight_comparer.py`

This will print the results and store the results in a `.mat` file.  We have included the results that were used to create the table in the paper Appendix.

## Determining the sizes of sets of optimal/possible patterns

Here, we have two options, `pattern_counter.py` and `pattern_counter_example.py`.

For the former, simply run `python3 pattern_counter.py`.  This will generate the results and the plots presented in the main paper and the Appendix.

For the latter do the following to reproduce our results.

1. Open `pattern_counter_example.py`

2. Uncomment `true_accs` line for desired scenario.

3. Pick the weighting strategy you want by changing the value of `weighting_strategy`.  If using majority vote, uncomment `Polytope.POSSIBLE_PATTERNS_VREP` in the `enums_to_skip` argument.  The volume of that polytope is best computed when the OCDS strategy is chosen.  Generating the input for that polytope is very slow when using the MV strategy.  It's unclear to us why this is the case.

4. Exit and run `python3 pattern_counter_example.py`.  The results will be stored in the results folder.

WARNING: if you change `true_accs`, make sure to move the folder that is generated by the code!
The folder name is the same regardless of what `true_accs` you choose.

### Recovering the results of pattern_counter(_example).py

Our code will directly print the results to the command line.  The data is also stored in `.mat` files.  Different runs are distinguished by `file_enum`, which shows up as a number appended to the variable name in the `.mat` file.  One can also go inside the `integrate_run_<n>` or `count_run_<n>` to see the logs from LattE.

## Info on some results

1. The folder `ocds_exact_p_2_k_2_dec_4_rndeps_0_appeps_0_generalist_n_400` contains the data that was used to generate the heatmaps.

2. In the folder `ocds_exact_p_3_k_3_dec_4_rndeps_0_appeps_1_10_generalist_n_27000`, one can open `latte_output.txt` and see the LattE logs for the volume computation of the included polytope.  We include this to show how even a *prima facie* simple setup (p,k = 3) can incur long computation times. See `input_0_run_0.ine` for details about that polytope.  

3. In the folder `ocds_p_3_k_2_dec_4_eps_0_n_1000`, we show the results of different runs of LattE finding the volume of T^0 where p=3, k=2, w^* = (0.5, 0.5), and b^* = (0.8, 0.6, 0.5).  In this simple case, setting the maximum determinant to 1000 in LattE's options for `count` was the fastest at >18 hours.  Here, the polytope is in 8 dimensions, but has 188 vertices.  We give the H-Representation of that polytope in `count_input_0_run_2.ine`
